Replace Images with code blocks for datastorage API how to (#8518) (#8843)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/howto/extensibility/howto-datastorage-api.md

```java
@Override
public java.util.List<IMendixObject> executeAction() throws Exception
{
    // BEGIN USER CODE
    List<IMendixObject> resultList = new ArrayList<~>();
    IDataTable resultDT = Core.retrieveOQLDataTable(getContext(), this.OqlQuery);
    int colCount = resultDT.getSchema().getColumnCount();
    // Loop through records, add to mendix object list
    resultDT.forEach(row -> {
        // instantiate mendix object as specified by ResultEnititg parameter
        IMendixObject obj = Core.instantiate(getContext(), this.ResultEntity);
        for (int i = 0; i < colCount; i++) {
            // get column name
            String colName = resultDT.getSchema().getColumnSchema(i).getName();
            // get column value
            Object colValue = row.getValue(getContext(), i);
            if(obj.hasMember(colName)) {
                // set result object value
                obj.setValue(getContext(), colName, colValue);
            } else {
                logger.info(String,format("Target entity does not have attribute named %s",colName));
            }
        }
        resultList.add(obj);
    });
    return resultList;
    // END USER CODE
}

> ```

Reviewer: With some minor changes, this block of code should look like this. Let's add a [link](https://github.com/ako/QueryApiBlogPost/blob/master/javasource/hr/actions/RetrieveAdvancedOql.java) to the source of this code.
```java
	@Override
	public java.util.List<IMendixObject> executeAction() throws Exception
	{
	// BEGIN USER CODE
        List<IMendixObject> resultList = new ArrayList<IMendixObject>();
        IDataTable resultDT = Core.retrieveOQLDataTable(getContext(), this.OqlQuery);
        int colCount = resultDT.getSchema().getColumnCount();
        // Loop through records, add to mendix object list
        resultDT.forEach(row -> {
            // instantiate mendix object as specified by ResultEnitity parameter
            IMendixObject obj = Core.instantiate(getContext(), this.ResultEntity);
            for (int i = 0; i < colCount; i++) {
                // get column name
                String colName = resultDT.getSchema().getColumnSchema(i).getName();
                // get column value
                Object colValue = row.getValue(getContext(), i);
                if(obj.hasMember(colName)) {
                    // set result object value
                    obj.setValue(getContext(), colName, colValue);
                } else {
                    logger.info(String.format("Target entity does not have attribute named %s",colName));
                }
            }
            resultList.add(obj);
        });
        return resultList;
	// END USER CODE
	}

```

	@Override
	public java.util.List<IMendixObject> executeAction() throws Exception
	{
		// BEGIN USER CODE
		ILogNode logger = Core.getLogger("RetrieveDatasetOql");
		List<IMendixObject> resultList = new ArrayList<IMendixObject>();
		IOQLTextGetRequest oqlGetRequest = Core.createOQLTextGetRequestFromDataSet(this.DataSetName);
		String oqlQuery = oqlGetRequest.getQuery();
		logger.info("OQL: " + oqlQuery);
		IDataTable resultDT = Core.retrieveOQLDataTable(getContext(), oqlQuery);
		int colCount = resultDT.getSchema().getColumnCount();
		resultDT.forEach(row -> {
			logger.info("Row: " + row.getValue(getContext(), 0));
			IMendixObject obj = Core.instantiate(getContext(), this.ResultEntity);
			for (int i = 0; i < colCount; i++) {
				String colName = resultDT.getSchema().getColumnSchema(i).getName();
				Object colValue = row.getValue(getContext(), i);
				if (obj.hasMember(colName)) {
					obj.setValue(getContext(), colName, colValue);
				} else {
					logger.info(String.format("Target entity %s does not have attribute named %s", this.ResultEntity, colName));
				}
			}
			resultList.add(obj);
		});
		return resultList;
		// END USER CODE
	}
```

## Retrieving Objects Using SQL

> You can use an API call to execute SQL queries on the application database (this feature is currently in beta). Using this call, you can create a microflow action to execute SQL: similar to the action for OQL in the previous sections.

Author: Is SQL calling still in Beta?

Reviewer: `executeWithConnection` functionality is not in beta, but it should be used with caution as it gives access to more functionality that Mendix usually allows. Mendix tables and their contents should never be modified using SQL. Removing "beta" is fine, but Let's also add a warning not to modify Mendix tables if it's not already there.

Author: @dahfjkg 
Thanks for the confirmation, Pavel. Should we say something like this instead?
```suggestion
You can use an API call to execute SQL queries on the application database. Using this call, you can create a microflow action to execute SQL: similar to the action for OQL in the previous sections.

{{% alert color="info" %}}
Although there is no restriction on which SQL clauses you can use, you should not modify Mendix tables or their contents. Doing so can prevent your app from working and can, potentially, corrupt your data.
{{% /alert %}}

```

Reviewer: No worries @MarkvanMents! This looks perfect.

{
    // BEGIN USER CODE
    ILogNode logger = Core.getLogger( s:"RetrieveDatasetOql");
    List<IMendixObject> resultList = new ArrayList<IMendixObject>();
    IOQLTextGetRequest oqlGetRequest = Core.createOQLTextGetRequestFromDataSet(this.DataSetName);
    String oqlQuery = oqlGetRequest.getQuery();
    logger.info(o:"OQL: " + oqlQuery);
    IDataTable resultDT Core.retrieveOQLDataTable(getContext(), oqlQuery);
    int colCount = resultDT.getSchema().getColumnCount();
    resultDT.forEach(row → {
        logger.info(o:"Row: " + row.getValue(getContext(), i:0));
        IMendixObject obj = Core.instantiate(getContext(), this.ResultEntity); 
        for (int i = 0; i < colCount; i++) {
            String colName = resultDT.getSchema().getColumnSchema(i).getName(); 
            Object colValue = row.getValue(getContext(), i);
            if (obj.hasMember(colName)) {
                obj.setValue(getContext(), colName, colValue);
            } else {
                logger.info(String.format("Target entity %s does not have attribute named %s", this.ResultEntity, colName));
            }
        resultList.add(obj);
        }
    });
    return resultList;
    //END USER CODE
}

> ```

Reviewer: Some minor fixes here as well. Again, let's add a link to the [source](https://github.com/ako/QueryApiBlogPost/blob/master/javasource/hr/actions/RetrieveDatasetOql.java)
```java

	@Override
	public java.util.List<IMendixObject> executeAction() throws Exception
	{
		// BEGIN USER CODE
		ILogNode logger = Core.getLogger("RetrieveDatasetOql");
		List<IMendixObject> resultList = new ArrayList<IMendixObject>();
		IOQLTextGetRequest oqlGetRequest = Core.createOQLTextGetRequestFromDataSet(this.DataSetName);
		String oqlQuery = oqlGetRequest.getQuery();
		logger.info("OQL: " + oqlQuery);
		IDataTable resultDT = Core.retrieveOQLDataTable(getContext(), oqlQuery);
		int colCount = resultDT.getSchema().getColumnCount();
		resultDT.forEach(row -> {
			logger.info("Row: " + row.getValue(getContext(), 0));
			IMendixObject obj = Core.instantiate(getContext(), this.ResultEntity);
			for (int i = 0; i < colCount; i++) {
				String colName = resultDT.getSchema().getColumnSchema(i).getName();
				Object colValue = row.getValue(getContext(), i);
				if (obj.hasMember(colName)) {
					obj.setValue(getContext(), colName, colValue);
				} else {
					logger.info(String.format("Target entity %s does not have attribute named %s", this.ResultEntity, colName));
				}
			}
			resultList.add(obj);
		});
		return resultList;
		// END USER CODE
	}

```

* Use *Core.dataStorage().executeWithConnection()* to execute some Java statements that receive a JDBC connection from the internal connection pool. This API is constructed to enable the Mendix Platform to guarantee that connections are returned to the pool after usage.

```java
@Override
public java.util.List<IMendixObject> executeAction() throws Exception
{
    // BEGIN USER CODE
    logger.info("executeAction: " + this.Sql);
    List<IMendixObject> resultList = null;
    resultList = Core.dataStorage().executeWithConnection(connection -> {...});
    return resultList;
    // END USER CODE
}

> ```

Reviewer: Let's add "    " to the beginning of every line here so the block of code is a part of the list

* With the JDBC connection you can now implement your Java as you would with a regular JDBC connection. 
* A prepared statement is created, executed and the resulting records are made available through a `ResultSet`.

    ```java
    resultList = Core.dataStorage().executeWithConnection(connection -> {
         List <IMendixObject> result = new ArrayList<IMendixObject>();
        try {
            PreparedStatement stmt = connection.prepareStatement(this.Sql);
            ResultSet rset = stmt.executeQuery();
            ResultSetMetaData rmd = rset.getMetaData();
            int colCount = rmd.getColumnCount();

>     ```

Reviewer: This block pf code is copied from [here](https://github.com/ako/QueryApiBlogPost/blob/master/javasource/hr/actions/RetrieveAdvancedSql.java). Let's add tabulation to every line so this and next clock of code read as a part of the same file:
```
        resultList = Core.dataStorage().executeWithConnection(connection ->
        {
            List<IMendixObject> result = new ArrayList<IMendixObject>();
            try {
                PreparedStatement stmt = connection.prepareStatement(this.Sql);
                ResultSet rset = stmt.executeQuery();
                ResultSetMetaData rmd = rset.getMetaData();
                int colCount = rmd.getColumnCount();
```

...

```

                while(rset.next()){
                    IMendixObject obj = Core.instantiate(getContext(),this.ResultEntity);
                    result.add(obj);
                    for(int colIdx=1; colIdx <= colCount ; colIdx++){
                        String colName = rmd.getColumnName(colIdx);
                        obj.setValue(getContext(),colName,rset.getObject(colIdx));
                    }
                    logger.debug(String.format("Created object %s", obj));
                }
```

1. Specify the required SQL statement in the Java method. JDBC queries expect the parameters to be specified by question marks (?) in the SQL statement.

    ```java
    @Override
    public java.util.List<IMendixObject> executeAction() throws Exception
    {
        // BEGIN USER CODE
        String sql=
            "with first_day_of_month as ( \n" +
            "    SELECT * \n" +
            "    FROM generate_series \n" +
            "        ( date_trunc('month', ?::timestamp) \n" +
            "        , ?, '1 months' \n" +
            "        ) as firstday \n" +
            "), \n" +
            "firstmonday as ( \n" +
            "    select fdom.firstday::date + \n" +
            "        ((8 - extract(dow from fdom.firstday))::integer % 7) \n" +
            "        as first_monday_date \n" +
            "    from first_day_of_month as fdom \n" +
            ") \n" +
            "select fm.first_monday_date \n" +
            "from firstmonday as fm \n" +
            "where fm.first_monday_date >= ?::timestamp \n" +
            "and fm.first_monday_date <= ?::timestamp \n" +
            ";"
            ;

>         logger.info("executeAction: " + sql);

Reviewer: As there are minor discrepancies between this block of code and the source [here](https://github.com/ako/QueryApiBlogPost/blob/master/javasource/hr/actions/CreateDateRangeList.java), I suggest simply copying that part here and to the blocks of code below.

Also, I would add the link to the file in the documentation because now it is not obvious what the source is.
